Bồ Cô (tiếng Trung: 浦姑) hoặc Bồ Cổ (tiếng Trung: 薄古) là một phiên thuộc thời Thương Châu, tiếp giáp Hoàng Hà và nằm ở địa phận Sơn Đông hiện nay.


== Lịch sử ==
The Pugu are recorded as existing during the Shang and were counted among the "Eastern Barbarians" or Dongyi of Qingzhou. They occupied the shore of the Bay of Bohai around present-day Binzhou và Boxing, an area which the silt deposition from the present course of the Yellow River has since made miles inland.
In alliance with the Shang prince Wu Geng, Pugu joined the Dongyi of Yan (奄, near present-day Qufu) and Xu in the Huai valley in opposing Shang's replacement by the Zhou after the Battle of Muye. This insurrection joined with the Rebellion of the Three Guards within Zhou itself, opposing the regency of the Duke of Zhou k. 1042 bc. The Duke undertook a successful campaign across the North China Plain, defeating Wu Geng and forcing the submission of the opposing Yi. Pugu's area was granted to the minister Jiang Ziya as the fief of Qi.
The Bamboo Annals record that during the Duke of Zhou's expedition the "royal troops... attacked Yan and destroyed Pugu". The word used (滅) means "destroy" and even implies "extermination". This was, however, patently hyperbolic since "belligerents" required a combined response from Qi, Lu, and Zhou ten years later and the Pugu are again said to have been "destroyed" in the autumn three years after that.
During the reign of King Yi, Duke Hu moved the Qi capital to the former site of Pugu. This prompted the residents of the former capital Yingqiu to revolt under another member of his house, who defeated him in battle and restored the former capital.


== Xem thêm ==
Thái Mậu


== Tham khảo ==

Li Feng (2006), Landscape and Power in Early China: The Crisis and Fall of the Western Zhou 1045–771 BC, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press .
Shaughnessy, Edward L. (1997), Before Confucius: Studies in the Creation of the Chinese Classics, Albany: State University of New York Press .
Sima Qian, “齐太公世家 [House of the Great Duke of Qi]”, Records of the Grand Historian, Guoxue, truy cập ngày 14 tháng 5 năm 2012 . (tiếng Trung)
Theobald, Ulrich (2013), “Chinese History: Barbarian Peoples: Yi 夷”, China Knowledge .